3.1 Under what circumstances are (a) a short hedge and (b) a long hedge appropriate?

a) A short hedge is appropriate when you are in the following situation: you lose money when the asset price decreases, and you gain money when the asset price increases.
b) A long hedge is appropriate when you are in the following situation: you gain money when the asset price decreases, and you lose money when the asset price increases.

3.2 Explain what is meant by basis risk when futures contracts are used for hedging.

Basis risk is difference between the spot price of an asset and its future price. 

3.3 Explain what is meant by a perfect hedge. Does a perfect hedge always lead to a better outcome than an imperfect hedge? Explain your answer.

A perfect hedge is a hedge that 100% neutralizes the risk associated with a position. A perfect hedge does not always lead to a better outcome than an imperfect hedge. For example, if you are using a short hedge and the price of the asset goes up, an imperfect hedge could result in a profit from this price movement. A perfect hedge would result in no profit from this upwards price movement in the asset because the loss on the hedge would perfectly offset this gain.

3.4 Under what circumstances does a minumum variance hedge portfolio lead to no hedging at all?

If the coefficient of correlation between delta S and delta F is zero. If the standard deviation of the spot price is zero.

3.5 Give three reasons why the treasurer of a company might not hedge the company's exposure to a particular risk.

1) The company wishes to profit from a favorable movement in the risky asset
2) The company's competitors don't hedge that particular risk
3) The treasurer doesn't want to get in trouble if the asset price changes favorably, and management expects to see profits, but the hedge eliminated those profits

3.6 Suppose that the standard deviation of quarterly changes in the prices of a commodity is $0.65, the standard deviation of quarterly changes in a futures price on the commodity is $0.81, and the coefficient of correlation betwen the two changes is 0.8. What is the optimal hedge ratio for a 3-month contract? What does it mean?

0.8 * (0.65/0.81) = 64.2%

It means that you should hedge 64.2% of the exposure to the commodity using these futures contracts. 



