5.1 Explain what happens when an investor shorts a certain share.

Investor A contacts their broker with a request to short a share. The broker finds an investor B that holds that share (who is willing to lend it out for a fee), and lends it to investor A. Investor A then sells the share at the current market price. When investor A is ready to close their short position, they buy back the share at the market price at that time, and return it to investor B. Investor A is responsible for covering any interest or dividends paid by the share, and paying it to investor B. If the broker runs out of shares to borrow, investor A will be forced to close their short position.

5.2 What is the difference between the forward price and the value of a forward contract?

The forward price is the price specified in the contract that will be exchanged on the delivery date in exchange for the underlying asset. Forward contracts start out with a value of zero. However, as the price of the underlying asset moves, the value of the forward contract goes up or down.

5.3 Suppose that you enter into a 6-month forward contract on a non-dividend-paying stock when the stock price is $30 and the risk-free interest rate (with continuous compounding) is 12% per annum. What is the forward price?

F0 = S0 * e^(r*t)
   = $30 * e^(0.12 * 6/12)
   = $31.85510
   
5.4 A stock index currently stands at 350. The risk-free interest rate is 8% per annum (with continuous compounding) and the dividend yield on the index is 4% per annum. What should the futures price for a 4-month contract be?

F0 = S0 * e^(r-q * t)
   = 350 * e^((0.08 - 0.04) * 4/12)
   = 354.6979
   
5.5 Explain carefully why the futures price of gold can be calculated from its spot price and other observable variables whereas the futures price of copper cannot.

Gold is an investment asset. Copper is a consumption asset. The futures price of an investment asset can be calculated accurately by making no arbitrage arguments. However, only the upper limit on the futures price for a consumption asset can be calculated using no arbitrage arguments.

5.6 Explain carefully the meaning of the terms convenience yield and cost of carry. What is the relationship between futures price, spot price, convenience yield, and cost of carry?

The benefits from holding the physical asset are sometimes referred to as the convnience yield provided by the commodity. The cost of carry measures the storage cost plus the interest that is paid to finance the asset less the income earned on the asset. F0 = S0*e^(c-y)T.

5.7 Explain why a foreign currency can be treated as an asset providing a known yield.

Each currency has its own risk free interest rate Rf. The interest paid is in the foreign currency, but can be converted to domestic currency at a known rate. Currency futures can therefore be priced using the same equation as a normal asset with a known yield, but we subtitute "q" in the equation to be Rf. This leads to the equation F0 = S0 * e^((R-Rf)*T). 

5.8 Is the futures price of a stock index greater than or less than the expected future value of the index? Explain your answer.

Stock indicies have positive systemic risk, meaning that an investor would expect a return greater than the risk free interest rate. This means that the futures prices of stock indicies will generally understate the expected future spot price.
